---
title: Migrating to Astro
description: Using Astro as a static site generator for my blog
pubDate: Apr 29, 2025

---

## Background

I started this site in 2013 using [Middleman](https://github.com/middleman/middleman) as the static site generator. Since the site was solely for showcasing my software, which does not update frequently, I eventually switched to maintaining raw HTML files. Recently, I decided to start a blog, prompting me to explore which SSG to use.

## What is Static Site Generator

When you have a bunch of HTML files on a website, you don't want to edit all of them just to change `© 2025` to `© 2026` each year. SSG is a software that uses template engine to generate HTML files. Additionally, it provides extra features such as converting Markdown to HTML, generating table of contents, and so on.

## Candidates

### [Middleman](https://github.com/middleman/middleman)

Middleman uses Sass for managing stylesheets and ERb or Haml for templates. As browsers evolve and features like [CSS Nesting](https://caniuse.com/css-nesting) are added, the need for something like Sass is becoming lower and lower. Also, I don't have good memories of using Haml. Maybe it is better than HTML, but these days I prefer raw HTML.

### [Zola](https://github.com/getzola/zola?tab=readme-ov-file)

Written in Rust. Seems good, but maybe too basic?

### [Astro](https://github.com/withastro/astro)

Astro has lots of plugins and very versatile. It uses its own file type called `.astro`, which combines JavaScript and HTML in a single file. With Treesitter and LSP support, editing it in NeoVim is quite comfortable.

## Setting up Astro

Create an Astro project:

```bash
$ npm create astro@latest
```

Recently, I prefer using Tailwind CSS when possible:

```bash
$ npx astro add tailwind
```

Catppuccin is a color theme that has wide support across various platforms, including editors, terminals, and more. It also supports Tailwind CSS. Currently, only the beta version supports Tailwind v4:

```bash
$ npm install -D @catppuccin/tailwindcss@1.0.0-beta.1
```

The HTML created from Markdown is out of the control of Tailwind CSS, so I need another plugin to apply stylesheets:

```bash
$ npm install -D @tailwindcss/typography
```

## Pitfalls

The files generated by Astro contain some that start with an underscore, so I had to add a `.nojekyll` file to the `public/` directory when using it for GitHub Pages.

## Conclusion

Astro's syntax was easy to grasp, and customizing it was just a matter of writing some JavaScript code. I enjoyed it.
